README.md, before:

# Roku Libs

Up-to-date libraries and utilities for BrightScript development. 

This includes the following libraries:
- [Google Analytics](./source/libs/google-analytics.brs)
- [HTTP Request](./source/libs/http-request.brs)

And several utilities that enhance built-in types/functions:
- [Console](./source/utils/console.brs)
- [Array](./source/utils/array.brs)
- [String](./source/utils/string.brs)
- [Math](./source/utils/math.brs)
- [Registry](./source/utils/registry.brs)


## Getting Started

The libraries and utilities are bundled into a sample project which sole purpose is to run unit tests built with the [Roku Unit Testing Framework](https://github.com/rokudev/unit-testing-framework).
Any file can and should be used separately as they do not have dependencies with each other.

### Makefile

The Makefile included provides a few simple rules to help with the app installation and testing, among other things. 

From a terminal, you can first start by exporting the following variables
```bash
export DEVICEIP=<your_device_IP>
export USER=<your_dev_mode_user>
export USERPASS=<your_dev_mode_password>
```
To run the unit tests (output will be available on the [debug console](https://sdkdocs.roku.com/display/sdkdoc/Debugging+Your+Application#DebuggingYourApplication-Accessingthedebugconsole))
```bash
make tests
```


## Description

### [Google Analytics](./source/libs/google-analytics.brs)

This library provides tracking capabilities by sending data reports to Google Analytics using the [Measurement Protocol](https://developers.google.com/analytics/devguides/collection/protocol/v1/reference). 
Below are some example usages on how to use its different tracking functionalities.

To retrieve the GA global singleton object
```javascript
googleAnalytics = GoogleAnalyticsLib()
```

After having a reference to the GA global (we'll be using `googleAnalytics` in the following examples), initialise it by passing one or more Tracking IDs. This is required in order to enable reporting altogether, but only needs to be done **once**.
```javascript
googleAnalytics.init("UA-12345678-90")
//Or when passing multiple Tracking IDs in an array
googleAnalytics.init(["UA-12345678-90", ..., "UA-09876543-21"])
```

Sending tracking reports
```javascript
// Event tracking
googleAnalytics.trackEvent({ category: "application", action: "launch"})

// Screen Tracking
googleAnalytics.trackScreen({ name: "mainScreen" })

// E-Commerce tracking
googleAnalytics.trackTransaction({ id: "OD564", revenue: "10.00"})
googleAnalytics.trackItem({ transactionId: "OD564", name: "Test01", price: "10.00", code: "TEST001", category: "vod"})

// Timing tracking
googleAnalytics.trackTiming({ category: "category", variable: "timing", time: "1000" })

// Exception tracking
googleAnalytics.trackException({ description: "description", isFatal: "1" })
```

Adding custom parameters to all tracking reports
```javascript
googleAnalytics.setParams({sr: "1280x800", ul: "en-gb"})
```

### [HTTP Request](./source/libs/http-request.brs)

This is a library that makes HTTP requests easier to deal with, with a syntax akin to JavaScript's `XMLHttpRequest` object. It provides a way to set a timeout using `setTimeout()` and can also do automatic retries using `setRetries()`. All setters and `open()` return the object itself to allow them to be chained. 
Below are some examples showing its different capabilities.

#### Request with 2s timeout and 3 retries
```javascript
request = HttpRequest()
request.open("https://postman-echo.com/delay/5").setTimeout(2000).setRetries(3)
response = request.send()
```

#### POST request with 'application/json' Content-Type
```javascript
request = HttpRequest()
request.open("https://postman-echo.com/post", "POST")
request.setRequestHeaders({"Content-Type": "application/json"})
response = request.send({user: "johndoe", password: "12345"})
```

#### Abort on-going request
```javascript
request = HttpRequest()
request.open("https://postman-echo.com/delay/5")
request.send()
request.abort()
```

### [Console Utilities](./source/utils/console.brs)

This is a small logging utility that enhances the built-in `print` debugging capabilities, with a syntax similiar to JavaScript's `console` object. It adds a timestamp to every log, provides group indentation, timers and different logging levels (`info`, `assert` and `error`).

Example usages:
```javascript
console = ConsoleUtil()
console.log("Hello World")           // [14:56:16:891] Hello World
console.time("Hello World")          // [14:56:16:891] Hello World: timer started
console.group()
console.log("Hello World")           // [14:56:16:892]     Hello World
console.info("Hello World")          // [14:56:16:893]     [INFO] Hello World
console.group()
console.assert(true, "Hello World")  // [14:56:16:894]         [ASSERT] Hello World
console.groupEnd()
console.assert(false, "Hello World") // 
console.error("Hello World")         // [14:56:16:895]     [ERROR] Hello World
console.groupEnd()
console.timeEnd("Hello World")       // [14:56:16:895] Hello World: 4ms
```

### [Array Utilities](./source/utils/array.brs)

This utility expands the array functionalities provided by the built-in `roArray` type. It implements the following functions: `isArray`, `contains`, `indexOf`, `lastIndexOf`, `slice`, `map`, `reduce`, `filter`.

Example usages:
```javascript
arrUtil = ArrayUtil()
arr = [5,2,3,2,1]

arrUtil.isArray(arr)         // true
arrUtil.contains(arr, 2)     // true
arrUtil.indexOf(arr, 2)      // 1
arrUtil.lastIndexOf(arr, 2)  // 3
arrUtil.slice(arr, 1, 3)     // [2,3,2]

// mapFunc = function(element, index, arr)
//     return element + 1
// end function
arrUtil.map(arr, mapFunc) // [6,3,4,3,2]

// reduceFunc = function(acc, element, index, arr)
//     return acc + element
// end function
arrUtil.reduce(arr, reduceFunc)    // 13
arrUtil.reduce(arr, reduceFunc, 5) // 18

// filterFunc = function(element, index, arr)
//     return element > 2
// end function
arrUtil.filter(arr, filterFunc) // [5,3]
```

### [String Utilities](./source/utils/string.brs)

This utility expands the string functionalities provides by the built-in `String`/`roString` types. It implements the following functions: `charAt`, `contains`, `indexOf`, `match`, `replace`, `truncate`, `toMD5`, `toSHA1`, `toSHA256`, `toSHA512`.

Example usages:
```javascript
strUtil = StringUtil()
str = "AbraCadabra"

strUtil.charAt(str, 1)              // "b"
strUtil.contains(str, "bra")        // true
strUtil.indexOf(str, "ra")          // 2
strUtil.match(str, "(ab)(ra)", "i") // ["Abra","Ab","ra"]
strUtil.replace(str, "Cad", "-")    // "Abra-abra"
strUtil.truncate(str, 4, "...")     // "Abra..."
strUtil.toMD5(str)                  // "3aa51d002ab23a353b13df9ba059b4fc"
```

### [Math Utilities](./source/utils/string.brs)

This utility provides additional mathematical constants and functions for BrightScript. It implements the following functions: `ceil`, `floor`, `round`, `min`, `max`.

Example usages:
```javascript
math = MathUtil()

math.ceil(1.4)        // 2
math.floor(1.4)       // 1
math.round(1.4)       // 1
math.round(1.4159, 3) // 1.416
math.min(0, 3)        // 0
math.max(0, 3)        // 3
math.E                // 2.71828
math.PI               // 3.14159
```

### [Registry Utilities](./source/utils/registry.brs)

This utility makes it easier to deal with `roRegistry` and `roRegistrySection` objects by simplifiyng all registry functions. It implements the following functions: `read`, `write`, `delete`, `readSection`, `deleteSection`, `getSections`, `clear`.

Example usages:
```javascript
registry = RegistryUtil()

registry.write("myKey", "myValue", "mySection") // Replaces the value of the specified key for a given section
registry.read("myKey", "mySection")   // Reads and returns the value of the specified key from a given section
registry.delete("myKey", "mySection") // Deletes the specified key from a given section
registry.readSection("mySection")     // Reads and return all key values from a given section
registry.deleteSection("mySection")   // Deletes all key values from a specified section
registry.getSections() // Returns all sections in the registry
registry.clear()       // Deletes all sections from the registry
```


## Contributing

Feel free to submit any pull request or issue to contribute to this project. Suggestions for new utilities or features are also welcomed.


## Authors

* **Julio Alves** - *Initial work* - [juliomalves](https://github.com/juliomalves)


## License

This project is licensed under the [MIT License](./LICENSE).

Commit message:

Refactored math util. Added power() method

README.md, after:

# Roku Libs

Up-to-date libraries and utilities for BrightScript development. 

This includes the following libraries:
- [Google Analytics](./source/libs/google-analytics.brs)
- [HTTP Request](./source/libs/http-request.brs)

And several utilities that enhance built-in types/functions:
- [Console](./source/utils/console.brs)
- [Array](./source/utils/array.brs)
- [String](./source/utils/string.brs)
- [Math](./source/utils/math.brs)
- [Registry](./source/utils/registry.brs)


## Getting Started

The libraries and utilities are bundled into a sample project which sole purpose is to run unit tests built with the [Roku Unit Testing Framework](https://github.com/rokudev/unit-testing-framework).
Any file can and should be used separately as they do not have dependencies with each other.

### Makefile

The Makefile included provides a few simple rules to help with the app installation and testing, among other things. 

From a terminal, you can first start by exporting the following variables
```bash
export DEVICEIP=<your_device_IP>
export USER=<your_dev_mode_user>
export USERPASS=<your_dev_mode_password>
```
To run the unit tests (output will be available on the [debug console](https://sdkdocs.roku.com/display/sdkdoc/Debugging+Your+Application#DebuggingYourApplication-Accessingthedebugconsole))
```bash
make tests
```


## Description

### [Google Analytics](./source/libs/google-analytics.brs)

This library provides tracking capabilities by sending data reports to Google Analytics using the [Measurement Protocol](https://developers.google.com/analytics/devguides/collection/protocol/v1/reference). 
Below are some example usages on how to use its different tracking functionalities.

To retrieve the GA global singleton object
```javascript
googleAnalytics = GoogleAnalyticsLib()
```

After having a reference to the GA global (we'll be using `googleAnalytics` in the following examples), initialise it by passing one or more Tracking IDs. This is required in order to enable reporting altogether, but only needs to be done **once**.
```javascript
googleAnalytics.init("UA-12345678-90")
//Or when passing multiple Tracking IDs in an array
googleAnalytics.init(["UA-12345678-90", ..., "UA-09876543-21"])
```

Sending tracking reports
```javascript
// Event tracking
googleAnalytics.trackEvent({ category: "application", action: "launch"})

// Screen Tracking
googleAnalytics.trackScreen({ name: "mainScreen" })

// E-Commerce tracking
googleAnalytics.trackTransaction({ id: "OD564", revenue: "10.00"})
googleAnalytics.trackItem({ transactionId: "OD564", name: "Test01", price: "10.00", code: "TEST001", category: "vod"})

// Timing tracking
googleAnalytics.trackTiming({ category: "category", variable: "timing", time: "1000" })

// Exception tracking
googleAnalytics.trackException({ description: "description", isFatal: "1" })
```

Adding custom parameters to all tracking reports
```javascript
googleAnalytics.setParams({sr: "1280x800", ul: "en-gb"})
```

### [HTTP Request](./source/libs/http-request.brs)

This is a library that makes HTTP requests easier to deal with, with a syntax akin to JavaScript's `XMLHttpRequest` object. It provides a way to set a timeout using `setTimeout()` and can also do automatic retries using `setRetries()`. All setters and `open()` return the object itself to allow them to be chained. 
Below are some examples showing its different capabilities.

#### Request with 2s timeout and 3 retries
```javascript
request = HttpRequest()
request.open("https://postman-echo.com/delay/5").setTimeout(2000).setRetries(3)
response = request.send()
```

#### POST request with 'application/json' Content-Type
```javascript
request = HttpRequest()
request.open("https://postman-echo.com/post", "POST")
request.setRequestHeaders({"Content-Type": "application/json"})
response = request.send({user: "johndoe", password: "12345"})
```

#### Abort on-going request
```javascript
request = HttpRequest()
request.open("https://postman-echo.com/delay/5")
request.send()
request.abort()
```

### [Console Utilities](./source/utils/console.brs)

This is a small logging utility that enhances the built-in `print` debugging capabilities, with a syntax similiar to JavaScript's `console` object. It adds a timestamp to every log, provides group indentation, timers and different logging levels (`info`, `assert` and `error`).

Example usages:
```javascript
console = ConsoleUtil()
console.log("Hello World")           // [14:56:16:891] Hello World
console.time("Hello World")          // [14:56:16:891] Hello World: timer started
console.group()
console.log("Hello World")           // [14:56:16:892]     Hello World
console.info("Hello World")          // [14:56:16:893]     [INFO] Hello World
console.group()
console.assert(true, "Hello World")  // [14:56:16:894]         [ASSERT] Hello World
console.groupEnd()
console.assert(false, "Hello World") // 
console.error("Hello World")         // [14:56:16:895]     [ERROR] Hello World
console.groupEnd()
console.timeEnd("Hello World")       // [14:56:16:895] Hello World: 4ms
```

### [Array Utilities](./source/utils/array.brs)

This utility expands the array functionalities provided by the built-in `roArray` type. It implements the following functions: `isArray`, `contains`, `indexOf`, `lastIndexOf`, `slice`, `map`, `reduce`, `filter`.

Example usages:
```javascript
arrUtil = ArrayUtil()
arr = [5,2,3,2,1]

arrUtil.isArray(arr)         // true
arrUtil.contains(arr, 2)     // true
arrUtil.indexOf(arr, 2)      // 1
arrUtil.lastIndexOf(arr, 2)  // 3
arrUtil.slice(arr, 1, 3)     // [2,3,2]

// mapFunc = function(element, index, arr)
//     return element + 1
// end function
arrUtil.map(arr, mapFunc) // [6,3,4,3,2]

// reduceFunc = function(acc, element, index, arr)
//     return acc + element
// end function
arrUtil.reduce(arr, reduceFunc)    // 13
arrUtil.reduce(arr, reduceFunc, 5) // 18

// filterFunc = function(element, index, arr)
//     return element > 2
// end function
arrUtil.filter(arr, filterFunc) // [5,3]
```

### [String Utilities](./source/utils/string.brs)

This utility expands the string functionalities provides by the built-in `String`/`roString` types. It implements the following functions: `charAt`, `contains`, `indexOf`, `match`, `replace`, `truncate`, `toMD5`, `toSHA1`, `toSHA256`, `toSHA512`.

Example usages:
```javascript
strUtil = StringUtil()
str = "AbraCadabra"

strUtil.charAt(str, 1)              // "b"
strUtil.contains(str, "bra")        // true
strUtil.indexOf(str, "ra")          // 2
strUtil.match(str, "(ab)(ra)", "i") // ["Abra","Ab","ra"]
strUtil.replace(str, "Cad", "-")    // "Abra-abra"
strUtil.truncate(str, 4, "...")     // "Abra..."
strUtil.toMD5(str)                  // "3aa51d002ab23a353b13df9ba059b4fc"
```

### [Math Utilities](./source/utils/string.brs)

This utility provides additional mathematical constants and functions for BrightScript. It implements the following functions: `isNumber`, `isInt`, `isFloat`, `isDouble`, `ceil`, `floor`, `round`, `min`, `max`, `power`.

Example usages:
```javascript
math = MathUtil()

math.isNumber(1.4)    // true
math.ceil(1.4)        // 2
math.floor(1.4)       // 1
math.round(1.4)       // 1
math.round(1.4159, 3) // 1.416
math.min(0, 3)        // 0
math.max(0, 3)        // 3
math.power(2, 8)      // 256
math.E                // 2.71828
math.PI               // 3.14159
```

### [Registry Utilities](./source/utils/registry.brs)

This utility makes it easier to deal with `roRegistry` and `roRegistrySection` objects by simplifiyng all registry functions. It implements the following functions: `read`, `write`, `delete`, `readSection`, `deleteSection`, `getSections`, `clear`.

Example usages:
```javascript
registry = RegistryUtil()

registry.write("myKey", "myValue", "mySection") // Replaces the value of the specified key for a given section
registry.read("myKey", "mySection")   // Reads and returns the value of the specified key from a given section
registry.delete("myKey", "mySection") // Deletes the specified key from a given section
registry.readSection("mySection")     // Reads and return all key values from a given section
registry.deleteSection("mySection")   // Deletes all key values from a specified section
registry.getSections() // Returns all sections in the registry
registry.clear()       // Deletes all sections from the registry
```


## Contributing

Feel free to submit any pull request or issue to contribute to this project. Suggestions for new utilities or features are also welcomed.


## Authors

* **Julio Alves** - *Initial work* - [juliomalves](https://github.com/juliomalves)


## License

This project is licensed under the [MIT License](./LICENSE).
